MINISTRY OF STEEL, MINES AND FUEL
( Department of Mining & Fuel )
Notification
New Delhi, dated the 12th June, 1957
S.R.O. 2042.--- In exercise of the powers conferred by section 27 of the Coal Bearing Areas
(Acquisition & Development) Act, 1957 (20 of 1957), the Central Government hereby makes the
following rules, namely:1.
Short title and commencement.--- (1) These rules may be called the Coal Bearing Areas
(Acquisition and Development) Rules, 1957.
(2) They shall come into force at once.
2.

Definitions.--- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, :(i)
(ii)
(iii)

“the Act” means the Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition & Development) Act, 1957
(20 of 1957);
“Area” means the coal bearing area which it is intended to prospect or acquire
under the provisions of the Act;
“section” means the section of the Act.

3.
Mode of service of notice or order.--- (1) Any notice or order required to be served under
the Act, if of a general nature or affecting a number of persons, shall be published in the official
Gazette and the due publication of such notice or order shall also be given by proclaiming it by
beat of drum on or near the area and by affixing a copy of it on some conspicuous place on or
near the area.
(2) Any notice or order required to be served under the Act, if directed against an
individual:(i)

shall be served by delivering or tendering a copy thereof duly signed to the person
on whom it is to be served or to his duly empowered agent;

(ii)

where the person on whom the notice or order is to be served cannot be found and
where such person has no agent empowered to accept service of notice or order,
service may be made on any adult member of the family of such person residing
with him ;

(iii)

where the serving officer delivers or tenders a copy of the notice or order to the
person to the served with such notice or order personally or to his agent or other
person on his behalf, he shall require the signature of the person to whom the
copy is so delivered or tendered in token of the acknowledgment of the service on
the original notice or order;
1

(iv)

where the person to be served with the notice or order of his agent or such other
person as aforesaid refuses to sign the acknowledgement, or where the serving
officer, after issuing all due and reasonable diligence, cannot find the person to be
served with the notice or order, and there is no agent empowered to accept service
of the notice or order on his behalf nor any other person on whom service can be
made, service may be effected by affixing a copy of the notice or order on the
outer door or some conspicuous part of the houses in which the person to be
served with the notice or order ordinarily resides. or carries on business or
personally works for gain or by affixing a copy of such notice or order to a
conspicuous place on or near the area;

(v)

the serving officer shall, in all cases in which the notice or order has been served
in the manner stated in clause (iv), endorse or annex or cause to be endorsed or
annexed, on or to the original notice or order, a return witnessed by two persons
living in the neighborhood stating the date on which and the manner in which the
notice or order was so served.

Every such substituted service shall be as effectual as if it has been made on the person
concerned personally.
(vi)

notwithstanding anything contained in clauses (i) to (v), the authority ordering the
service of a notice or order may, if he thinks fit or when he finds that the service
cannot be effected in any of the modes aforesaid, order that the notice or order
shall be served by sending a copy thereof, duly signed, by registered post with
acknowledgement due to the person on whom such notice or order is to be served
at his last known address;

In case of such service an acknowledgement purporting to be signed by such person or
his duly empowered agent or an endorsement by a postal employee that such person or
the agent refused to take delivery, may be deemed by the authority ordering service of
such notice or order to be prima facie proof of service;
(vii)

where the person to be served with notice or order is a minor or a person of
unsound mind, the notice shall be served in the aforesaid manner, on the guardian
of such minor or person of unsound mind, as the case may be.

(3)
any notice or order required to be served under the Act, if directed against a
Corporation, may be served:(a) on the Secretary, or on any Director, or other principle officer of the
Corporation, or
(b) by leasing it or sending it by post addressed to the Corporation at the
registered office, or if there is no registered office then at the place where the
Corporation carries on business.

2

4.

The procedure to be followed after the issue of notification under section 7.--(1) On the publication in the Official Gazette of a notification under section 7,
any person interested in any land in respect of which such notification has been issued,
may, within thirty days of the notification, make objection to the competent authority in
writing.
(2) Every objection referred to the in clause (1) shall contain a statement of the
nature of the interest of the objector over the area to be acquired, and shall also contain a
statement as to whether the objector is or is not in actual possession of such area. The
objection shall be duly verified by the objector or his duly authorized agent. The objector
shall submit along with the objection a list of documents, if any, on which he relies for
establishing his objection. The objector shall also file along with his objection as many
copies of the objection as are required by the competent authority.
(3) The competent authority on receiving the objection, if it complies with the
requirements laid down in this rule, register such objection and fix a date for the hearing
of the objection and give notice thereof to the objector as well as to all the parties
interested in the area in respect of which the objection is filed. With every such notice a
copy of the objection filed shall be annexed except in the case of the objector. Any party
interested may file at least fifteen days before the date fixed by the competent authority
for hearing of the objection, a statement by way of reply to the objection.
(4) On the date fixed for the hearing of the objection or any other date to which
the hearing may be adjourned by the competent authority, the competent authority shall
examine whereas, if tendered on behalf of the objector or any other interested party.
(5) The proceeding before the competent authority shall be summary, and only the
substance of the statement of parties or the statement of the witnesses, if any shall be
recorded.

(6) The competent authority shall, after hearing the arguments, if any, of the
parties concerned and after making such further inquiry as he thinks necessary, submit
the case for decision of the Central Government, together with a record of the
proceedings held by him and a report containing his recommendations on the objection.
5.
Maps, charts, etc to whom to be delivered.--- All maps, charts and other documents
referred to in sub-section (7) of section 13 shall be delivered to the Revenue Officer of the
National Coal Development Corporation Limited within ninety days from the date of publication
of the notice under sub-section (1) of section 4 of the Act.
5-A. Filing of claims for compensation.--- Any person interested may file his claim for
compensation to the Managing Director, National Coal Development Corporation Ltd, Ranchi,
or to such other officer as the Central Government may notify in that behalf;

3

(a) where the claim is in respect of any matter referred to in sub-section (1) of section 15,
within ninety days from the date of publication of the notice under sub-section (1) of
section 4;
(b) where the claim is in respect of any matter referred to in sub-section (4) of section 13,
within ninety days from the date of rescission of the notice issued under subsection(1) of section 4 or after the expiry of the period of three years specified in subsection (2) of section 7;
(c) where the claim is in respect of any matter referred to in sub-section (2) or subsection (5) of section 13, within ninety days from the date of publication of the
declaration under section 9 ;
Provided that Managing Director, National Coal Development Corporation Limited, Ranchi, or
such other officer may admit any claim within thirty days after the expiry of the specified period
if he is satisfied that the applicant had sufficient cause for not making the application within the
specified period.
* 6. Deposit of compensation.--- Where the amount of compensation including interest, if
any, payable under the Act has to be deposited with the Tribunal, such amount shall be deposited
into the treasury for credit in the accounts of the Central Government under the Head “ TDeposits and Advances – Part-II--Deposits not Bearing Interest – (C) Other Deposits AccountsDepartmental and Judicial Deposits-Civil Deposits-Deposits of Tribunals appointed under the
Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition and Development) Act, 1957”.
7.
Procedure to be followed by Tribunal.--- (1) The Tribunal shall fix a date and place for
hearing of the matter which it is empowered to decide under the Act and shall inform the parties
of such date and place accordingly.
(2)
on the date so fixed or any other date to which the hearing may be adjourned, the Central
Government and every person interested in the dispute before the Tribunal shall state in writing
what in their respective opinions is a fair amount of compensation.
(3)
The Tribunal shall afford reasonable opportunity to the parties to adduce such oral and
documentary evidence as they desire to adduce and as may be relevant.
(4)
The Tribunal shall record the substance of the statement of the parties and the witnesses,
if any.
(5)
Any person who has been admitted to be interested and who has accepted the payment of
compensation under protest may within six weeks or the date of such acceptance prefer an
application to the Tribunal for determining the sufficiency of the amount of compensation:
Provided the Tribunal may entertain an application preferred within thirty days after the expiry
of the specified period if it is satisfied that the applicant had sufficient cause for not preferring
the application within the specified period.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------* Substituted by notification No. S.O. 3051, dated 21.8.1964 published in the Gazette of India, Part II,
Section 3 (ii), dated 5.9.1964.
4

** 8. Appeals to Central Government: (1) Every appeal to the Central Government shall be in
the form of the memorandum singed by the appellant, and shall be addressed to the Secretary to
the Government of India in the Ministry of 3 ( Steel, Mines and Fuel (Department of Mining and
Fuel) and be presented to that officer personally or sent to him by registered post with
acknowledgement due. The memorandum shall be accompanied by a certified copy of the order
appealed against.
(2)
The memorandum of appeal shall set forth, concisely and under district head, the grounds
of the objection to the order appealed from without the argument or narrative; and such grounds
shall be numbered consecutively.
(3)
An appeal not filed within time allowed under the Act or in the manner laid down in this
rule shall be rejected by the Central Government but if the appeal is defective in form, the
Central Government, before rejecting such appeal, shall call upon the party concerned to remove
the defects within a particular time, and if he does so, the appeal shall be admitted.

[ No.C2-1(4)/56 ]
R.N. CHOPRA, Deputy Secretary
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------** 8 At present : Ministry of Coal.

------

5

