F No. 43022/1/2020-LAIR
Government of India
Ministry of Coal
Shastri Bhawan, New Delhi — 110 001.
Dated: 30" September, 2022
OFFICE MEMORANDUM

Subject: Constitution of Empowered Committee for clarification on Policy
Guidelines for leasing of land acquired under Coal Bearing Areas
(Acquisition and Development) Act, 1957- reg.

With the approval of Union Cabinet dated 13™ April, 2022, Ministry of Coal has
issued a Policy Guidelines on 22nd April, 2022 for leasing of land acquired under Coal
Bearing Areas (Acquisition and Development) Act, 1957 (copy enclosed). As per this
Policy Guidelines only the following types of lands will be considered:

a) Lands which are no longer suitable or economically viable for coal mining
activities; or

b) Lands from which coal has been mined out / de-coaled and such land has been
reclaimed.

2. in compliance of decision of Union Cabinet dated 13th April 2022, with the
approval of Competent Authority, it has been decided to constitute an Empowered
Committee for clarifications on Policy Guidelines for leasing of land acquired under
Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition and Development) Act, 1957. The Committee will

have the following Members:

| Additional Secretary, Ministry of Coal - Chairperson
II. Joint Secretary, Ministry of Coal - Member
I. Joint Secretary, Department of Economic Affairs - Member
IV. Concerned Adviser, NITI Aayogd - Member

3 The terms of reference of the Committee shall be as follows:

i Recommending clarifications on Policy Guidelines for leasing of land;

i Recommending development activities for leasing of land that are related to the
activities mentioned in para 4 (5) of the said Policy Guidelines and connected
to the coal and energy related infrastructure in general, in addition to the
activities specified in the Policy Guidelines, as referred by the Ministry of Coal.

ii. Any other work related to this land use policy assigned by the Ministry of Coal

Sus

(Ram Shiromani Saroj)
DIRECTOR
Tel. No. 011-23380026
To,
Additional Secretary, Ministry of Coal.
Joint Secretary (LA&IR), Ministry of Coal.
Joint Secretary, Department of Economic Affairs [through Secretary, DEA].
Adviser, NITI Aayog (looking after Ministry of Coal) [through CEO, NITI
Aayog].

Be LA

Page 1of2
Copy to:

PS to Hon'ble Minister of Coal, Mines and Parliamentary Affairs.
PS to Hon'ble Minister of State for Coal, Mines and Railways.
PSO to Secretary (Coal).

PS to AS &NA/ PS to JS&FA

Secretary, Department of Economic Affairs.

CEO, NITI Aayog.

Joint Secretary (Cabinet), Cabinet Secretariat.

Director, PMO.

Chairman-cum-Managing Director, CIL.

CMD, BCCL/CCL/ECL/MCL/NCL/SECL/WCL.

STD, NIC, Ministry of Coal - for uploading this OM on the website of Ministry of
Coal.

dekh

Page 2 of 2
No. 43022/1/2020-LAIR
Government of India
Ministry of Coal

Shastri Bhawan, New Delhi — 110001.
Dated: 22 April, 2022

OFFICE MEMORANDUM

Sub. Policy Guidelines for use of land acquired under the Coal Bearing Areas
(Acquisition & Development) Act, 1957.

Ministry of Coal have been receiving requests for leasing of land acquired under
the Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition & Development) Act, 1957 (‘the CBA Act) for
multiple purposes that are ancillary to coal mining. Many activities in coal mines are
performed by the private sector under different models of development and financing
as per the decisions of the Board of the Government Coal Companies. It is felt
expedient to formulate a policy to provide land on lease to other CPSUs, State
Governments (including its PSUs) and private entities to set up coal related
infrastructure development on CBA acquired land.

2. Accordingly, with the approval of the Union Cabinet dated 13! April, 2022, it
has been decided that lands acquired under the CBA Act may be considered for
granting on lease by the land owning Public Sector Undertakings (‘PSUs’)! coal
company to other CPSUs, State Governments (including its PSUs) and private entities
for development of coal infrastructure and other development activities without change
in ownership of the lands.

3. Leasing of the land for the purpose of setting up of infrastructure relating to coal
and other development infrastructure shall ensure use of de-coaled/idle land for the
welfare of the project affected persons, energy sector and environmental upgradation.
Such use of these lands will boost industrial activity in the nearby areas and generate
employment.

4, The leasing of lands shall be in accordance with the following Policy
Guidelines and Terms and Conditions:

(1) Only the following types of lands will be considered:

(a) Lands which are no longer suitable or economically viable for coal mining
activities; or

(b) Lands from which coal has been mined out / de-coaled and such land has
been reclaimed.

(2) Before considering the land for leasing out, a certificate from Central Mine Planning
and Design Institute Limited (CMPDIL) shall be obtained stating that the land which
is being considered for leasing fulfills the conditions mentioned in clause (1) above.

(3) Board of the land-owning coal company shall also record how the land which is
being considered for leasing fulfill the conditions mentioned in clause (1) above
and reasons for considering such land for leasing out.

Page 1 of 5

=
(4) The Board of the Company shall be the competent authority to approve all land

lease proposals as per this Policy.

(5) The lands will be considered for the following coal infrastructure development

(6)

(")

(8)

activities and for such period of lease as mentioned against each activity:
(a) to set up Coal Washeries {maximum lease period 30 years);
(b) to set up Conveyor Systems (maximum lease period 30 years);
(c) to establish Coal Handling Plants (maximum lease period 30 years);
(d) to construct Railway Sidings (maximum lease period 30 years);

(e) Rehabilitation and Resettlement of Project Affected Families due to
acquisition of land under the CBA (A&D) Act, 1957 or other land acquisition
laws (maximum lease period 99 years);

(f) to set up thermal and renewable power projects (maximum lease period 35
years);

(9) to set up or provide for coal development related infrastructure including
afforestation (maximum lease period 99 years), hospitals (maximum lease
period 99 years), project office (maximum lease period 30 years), etc.

(h) to provide Right of Way (in case of railway line and highways 99 years, and
in other cases maximum lease period 30 years or life of infrastructure
whichever is lower);

(i) Coal gasification and coal to chemical plants (maximum lease period 35
years);

(ij) Coal bed methane (CBM) extraction (maximum lease period 30 years or as
may be allowed by the Government to the CBM concession holder); and

(k) to set up or provide for energy related infrastructure.

Ministry of Coal can issue directions to reduce or increase the lease period
depending upon necessity, ground realities and specific nature of the project.

Leasing out of the land to private entities for above proposed activity shall be
through a transparent, fair and competitive bid process and mechanism in order to
achieve optimal value.

A Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) / agreement will be signed between
beneficiary organization/ lessee and concerned land owning PSU (Government

company).

Beneficiary organization / lessee will ensure that land is used for the purpose for
which it was provided to them. Utilization of land for any other purpose shall lead
to cancellation.

Coal company shall be empowered to impose penalty on beneficiary organization/
lessee as may be specified in the MoU/ lease agreement.

Board of concerned coal company will fix lease rent as per prevalent rules and
regulations. The revenue from the proposed activity (s) on lease of land by a Coal

Company shall accrue to concerned Coal Company.

Page 2 of 5

(12)

(15)

(16)

(17)

(18)

(20)

On completion of work or on expiry of lease, the CBA lands would be returned to
the land-owning PSU/ Central Government without any claim and free from all
encumbrances without the infrastructure built thereon by the lessee/ beneficiary
organization.

Existing washeries, if any, which were established by the PSUs and private entities
on allotment/ auction basis and have not completed the maximum lease period are
also included in the instant policy regarding land use.

Right of Way permission shall include non-coal uses such as laying pipelines/
conveyors and other miscellaneous public utility uses such as gas pipelines,
drinking water pipelines, railway lines, telephone lines, transmission lines, roads
and highways, etc. on rent basis to other PSUs, State Governments (including its
PSUs) and private entities.

All the applicable terms and conditions mentioned in the instant Policy Guidelines
shall be necessarily included in the MoU/ agreement.

Right of Way shall not be transferable or inheritable right. It shall not constitute any
right or title in favour of beneficiary organization/ lessee, except as specified in the
MoU.

In case, a land owning PSU (Government company) invites investment in related
infrastructure for providing services to the coal company itself, a lease rent may be
charged for allowing use of land from the lessee. In such case, the coal company
may allow some flexibility to the lessee for providing surplus services to entities
other than the land owning coal company.

In those cases where the infrastructure is not being created at the instance/
invitation of the coal company but sought to be created by a coal consumer, then
annual rent for the ‘Right of Way’ may be decided by the Board of the concerned
coal company keeping in mind the commercial advantage of such arrangements.
It shall not constitute or create any right of easement.

The lease may include mortgageable rights for the PSU/ State Governments/
private entities only over the assets of the lessee and rights, title or interest created
in favour of the lessee under the MoU/ agreement in order to make the project
viable. The basis for lease rental may be clearly provided by the PSU in the bidding
document. The financial decisions with regard the PSU shall be taken by the Board
of the PSU, which shall take into consideration above mentioned conditions and
guidelines issued by the Central Government.

The Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) agreement signed between
beneficiary organization/ lessee and concerned land owning PSU shall clearly

specify the following:

(a) Ownership of the land shall always remain vested with the land owning PSU
and any creation of charge or mortgage over the assets of the lessee and on
the lease rights shall not affect the ownership of the land owning PSU over such
land.

(b) The MoU! agreement or rights, title or interest created in favour of the lessee
under the MoU/ agreement shall not be assigned by the lessee to any person
save and except with the prior consent in writing of the land owning PSU, which

Page 3 of 5

\

Pg
consent the land owning PSU shall be entitled to decline without assigning any
reason.

(c) Mortgages/ pledges/ hypothecation over the goods/ assets or rights, title or
interests of the lessee may be created by the lessee in the ordinary course of
business and as security for securing Financial Assistance, provided that such
charge shall not be effective before Financial Close and shall not continue for
a period exceeding the period of lease.

(21) While setting up of coal washeries, the beneficiary organization/ lessee shall make
adequate provision for proper management/ treatment of waste water generated
from them and its reuse, wherever possible, should be made. Further, the
mechanism for washing of coal should be such that there is no contamination/
pollution of ground water or surface water.

(22) In the case of Rehabilitation and Resettlement projects for Affected families,
provisions of adequate sanitation facilities (including Community Sanitary
Complexes) may be essentially made to ensure that such habitations/ colonies are
always Open Defecation Free, and that No One is Left Behind in having access to
a toilet. Along with sanitation facilities, individual household tap connections may
be provided in pursuance of Jal Jeevan Mission objective.

(23) While finalizing the land use planning, adequate provisions for ensuring drinking
water security by way of rainwater harvesting/ groundwater recharge by utilizing
existing natural detention basins in the area by executing adequate drainage works
shall be ensured by the beneficiary organization/ lessee.

(24) The area being planned to be leased should not have overlap with any of the
existing CBM/ PSC/ DSF/ OALP blocks granted by Ministry of Petroleum & Natural
Gas, except in case where lease is being granted for CBM extraction.

(25) The directions/ conditions contained in the vesting order issued under section 11(1)
of the CBA Act will be suitably amended to empower the Government Companies
to grant lease for coal and energy related developmental activities in accordance
with these Policy Guidelines issued by the Ministry of Coal, Government of India.

5. This is issued with the approval of the Competent Authority.

2h]
(M. Nagaraju)
Additional Secretary to the Government of India
Tel: 011-23383356

To,

1. Chairman, Coal India Limited, Coal Bhawan Premise No. 4 MAR, Plot No. AF-
Ill, Action Area — 1A, Newtown, Rajarhat, Kolkata — 700156.

2. Director Technical, Coal India Limited, Coal Bhawan Premise No. 4 MAR, Plot
No. AF-llI, Action Area — 1A, Newtown, Rajarhat, Kolkata — 700156.

3. Chairman-cum-Managing Director, Bharat Coking Coals Limited, Kolya
Bhawan, Koyla Nagar, Dhanbad — 826005.

Page 4 of 5
8.

9:

. Chairman-cum-Managing Director, Central Coalfields Limited, Darbhanga

House, Kutchery Road, Ranchi — 834 029.

. Chairman-cum-Managing Director, Eastern Coalfields Limited, Sanctoria, P.O.

Dishergah — 713 333.

Chairman-cum-Managing Director, Mahanadi Coalfields Limited, Jagriti Vihar,
Burla, Odisha — 768 020.

Chairman-cum-Managing Director, Northern Coalfields Limited, Singrauli,
Madhya Pradesh.

Chairman-cum-Managing Director, South Eastern Coalfields Limited, Seepat
Road, Bilaspur, Chhattisgarh — 495 006.

Chairman-cum-Managing Director, Western Coalfields Limited, Coal Estate,
Civil Lines, Nagpur — 440 001.

10.Chairman-cum-Manging Director, Central Mine Planning & Design Institute

Limited (CMPDIL), Gondwana Place, Kanke Road, Ranchi — 834031.

11.Coal Controller, Coal Controller's Organization, Ministry of Coal, Scope Minar,

5th Floor, Core-ll, Laxmi Nagar, Delhi - 110092.

12.CMDs/MDs of all other Central Public Sector Undertakings/ State Public Sector

Undertakings who has acquired/ is being acquired land for coal mining
purposes under CBA (A&D) Act, 1957.

13. Senior Technical Director (NIC), Ministry of Coal — with request to upload this

OM on website of Ministry of Coal.

Copy for information to:

Shri S.G.P. Verghese, Joint Secretary, Cabinet Secretariat, Rashtrapati
Bhawan, New Delhi.

Shri R. Vyasan, Director, Prime Minister's Office, South Block, New Delhi.
PSO to Secretary (Coal), Ministry of Coal, Shastri Bhawan, New Delhi.

PPS to Additional Secretary and Nominated Authority, Ministry of Coal, Shastri
Bhawan, New Delhi.

Joint Secretary & Financial Adviser, Ministry of Coal, Shastri Bhawan, New
Delhi.

Chief Secretaries of Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat,
Jharkhand, Meghalaya, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Nagaland, Odisha,
Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal.

arly,

(M. Nagaraju)
Additional Secretary to the Government of India
Tel: 011-23383356

Page 50of 5
