MPS/2/2022-MPS
Government of India
Ministry of Coal
(MPS Section)

Fkkkk

Room No. 622-A, Shastri Bhawan,
New Delhi, dated 28th October, 2022

Sub: Guidelines for the Management of Mines discontinued/ abandoned/
closed before the year 2009.

A large number of coal mines were discontinued/abandoned/closed before

2009 when 15! mine closure guidelines were issued by the Ministry of Coal.
However, these guidelines were silent about them. There is a need to close these
mines scientifically in such a manner that they provide benefit to the community,
prevent illegal mining, ensure the safety and repurposing of the mined-out land.
Therefore, guidelines are being issued to provide guidance to all coal companies
(including lignite) having discontinued/ abandoned/ closed mines after the

nationalization of coal mines till 27t" August 2009 (date of issuance of first coal
mines closure guidelines). Copy of the same is enclosed. The guidelines intend to
only provide an overall framework for the closure of mines and the details of final
implementation plans are to be finalized and approved by the respective Company
Boards. The overall goal of the guidelines is to restore the mined-out land as far as
possible to its pre-mining stage, bring ecological balance and purposefully reutilise
the land for the benefit of the country.

2. It is requested to take further necessary action in compliance of these
guidelines and submit ATR to this Ministry on Quarterly basis.

This issues with the approval of the Competent Authority. wt
Encl: As above rAd
(Hitlar Singh)

Under Secretary to the Govt. of India
E-mail: hitlar.singh85@nic.in

To,
1. The Chairman, CIL, Kolkata
2. CMDs of all Subsidiaries of CIL
3. CMD, SCCL
4, CMD, NLCIL
Copy to:

1. The Secretary, MOEF&CC, New Delhi
2. The Director General, DGMS, Dhanbad
3. The Coal Controller, New Delhi

4. NIC - to upload on portal of MoC

5. All sections of this Ministry
F. No. MPS/02/2022-MPS
Government of India

Ministry of Coal
[MPS Section]
fdefdd
Shastri Bhawan, New Delhi
Dated: 28™ October, 2022
OFFICE MEMORANDUM

Subject: Guidelines for the Management of Mines discontinued/abandoned/closed before
the year 2009

A large number of coal mines were discontinued/abandoned/closed before 2009 when
1*' mine closure guidelines were issued by the Ministry of Coal. However, these guidelines
were silent about them. There is a need to close these mines scientifically in such a manner that
they provide benefit to the community, prevent illegal mining, ensure the safety and
repurposing of the mined-out land. Therefore, the following guidelines are being issued to
provide guidance to all coal companies (including lignite) having discontinued/ abandoned/
closed mines after the nationalization of coal mines till 27" August 2009 (date of issuance of
first coal mines closure guidelines). The guidelines intend to only provide an overall framework
for the closure of mines and the details of final implementation plans are to be finalized and
approved by the respective Company Boards. The overall goal of the guidelines is to restore
the mined-out land as far as possible to its pre-mining stage, bring ecological balance and
purposefully reutilise the land for the benefit of the country.

1. Categorisation of non-operational mines -

In continuation to various circulars issued by DGMS and industry-accepted norms, the
following categories will now be defined as specified below -

1.1. Discontinued Mines: Discontinued mines mean such working in a mine as have been
discontinued for any reason and are inaccessible or rendered inaccessible but are likely
to be worked again. These mines can be re-opened as per provisions of CMR (Reg.-6)
and Colliery Control Amendment Rule-2021 (Rule no.9 (ii)).

1.2. Abandoned Mines: Abandoned mines mean such working as have been abandoned
with no intention of working in the future for which the owner of the mine has already
submitted a notice to the Chief Inspector of Mines, Regional Inspector, and District
Magistrate about abandonment in the prescribed format (Reg. no. 5 of CMR, 2017).

1.3. Closed Mines: Closed mines are those mines for which the owner/agent/manager has
submitted notice of closure in the prescribed format (under CMR-2017, Reg.-5) to the
Chief Inspector of Mines, Regional Inspector and District Magistrate and has also
obtained the mine closure certificate from Coal Controller (As per mine closure
guidelines-2020).

However, prior to the implementation of Mine Closure guidelines-2009, closed mines
may be considered as those mines for which the owner of the mine has already
submitted a notice to the Chief Inspector of Mines, Regional Inspector and District
Magistrate about the closure in the prescribed format (Form-1 of Regulation — 6 of
CMR-1957), and the extractable reserve as per mining plan has been exhausted.

1|Page
2.1.1.

2.1.2.

2.14.

2.15.

2.1.7.

2:2.

2.2.1.

Steps to be taken by mine owners to manage the non-operational mines -
Discontinued/Abandoned mines -

Mine re-operationalization: The owner of the mine shall explore possibilities to
operationalize the concerned mines through various models, additional exploration if
required and prepare a detailed action plan after due consultation ensuring transparency
and objectivity. EC if required may be obtained following the guidelines of MoEFCC

for reopening the mines.

Approval of the re-operationalization plan: The re-operationalization plan must be
approved by the company board.

- Modification in Mining Plan: Concerned Coal Company will modify the mining plan

within 1 year of coming into force these guidelines if required.

Temporary mine closure plan: If the mine cannot be operationalized after initiatives
taken under Para 2.1.1, then the owner of the mine shall prepare a temporary mine
closure plan. A temporary mine closure plan would contain the mine closure activities
such as protective works, safety measures, and any other required activity as per Para
8.10.1. of the Guidelines of preparation of Mining Plan & Mine Closure Plan dated 29%
May 2020, in such a manner that if technology permits in the future, mining can be
restarted. Mine owners should include short-term economic activities in the temporary
closure plan without damaging the seams/reserves available.

Approval of temporary mine closure plan: The temporary closure plan must: be
approved by the company board. Also, the plan must include details of efforts
undertaken to operationalize mine as per Para 2.1.1. The coal mine owners are required
to obtain the approval for Temporary mine closure plan within one year from the date
of issuance of these guidelines. In case temporary mine closure plan is not prepared by
CMPD], then it may be vetted by a third-party expert agency approved by the central
government, like Central Mine Planning and Design Institute Ltd. (CMPDI), National
Environment Engineering Research Institute (NEERI), Indian Institute of Technology
(ITIT-ISM) etc. before submitting it to the Company Board.

- Implementation of temporary closure plan: After the approval of the mine closure

plan, the owner of mine will carry out mine closure activities as detailed in the
temporary mine closure plan within 3 years, failing which appropriate action would be
taken against the mine owner.

The Government may at any time before the closure of the mine, require certain
activities to be included in the mine closure plans, which it may consider necessary for
the safety and conservation of the environment or in compliance with any modification/
amendment in the relevant legislation.

Closed Mines -

Final mine closure plan: In the case of closed mines, the owner of the concerned mine
shall prepare a Final mine closure plan. The Final Mine closure plan should be prepared
as per the Guidelines for preparing the Mining Plan & Mine Closure plan dated 29"
May 2020. However, only the mine closure part is to be prepared in case of these mines.

2|Page
2.2.2.

2.2.3.

2.24.

2.2.5.

3.1.

3.2.

3.3.

Approval of Final mine closure plan: The Final mine closure plan has to be approved
by the company board. The mine owners shall ensure mine closure as per the mine
closure plan approved by the Company Board. The coal mine owners are required to
obtain the approval of the Final mine closure plan within one year from the date of
issuance of these guidelines. In case final mine closure plan is not prepared by CMPDI,
then it may be vetted by a third-party expert agency approved by the central
government, like Central Mine Planning and Design Institute Ltd. (CMPDI), National
Environment Engineering Research Institute (NEERI), Indian Institute of Technology
(II'T-ISM) ete. before submitting it to the Company Board.

Implementation of Final mine closure plan: After the approval of the Company
Board, the owner of mine will carry out mine closure activities as detailed in the Final
mine closure plan within 5 years failing which appropriate action would be taken
against the mine owner.

Alternate use of reclaimed Land: After the closure of the mine, on the reclaimed land
various project-specific economic repurposing activities can be carried out or reclaimed
land to be leased out as per Ministry of Coal policy guidelines dated 22nd April 2022
for use of land acquired under the Coal Bearing Area (Acquisition & Development)

Act, 1957.

The Government may at any time before the closure of the mine require certain
activities to be included in the mine closure plans, which it may consider necessary for
the safety and conservation of the environment or in compliance with any modification/
amendment in the relevant legislation.

Social support measures -

The air, water, and soil quality of the region surrounding 5 km of the discontinued/
abandoned/ closed mines should be monitored as per MoEFCC/CPCB defined
acceptable standards and it is mandated to ensure that the closure plan must include all
such activities needed to control the pollution from the concerned mines.

The health camps must be organized on monthly basis to monitor the health of the
population residing within 5 km of the discontinued/ abandoned/ closed mines with a
special focus on respiratory diseases such as silicosis etc. The identified patients must
be linked to local health administration for further treatment if required.

A careful consideration is to be given to provide reskilling to the willing workers as per
their need for their gainful employment.

Financial provision-

The financial provision for the closure activities of both temporary and final mine
closure plans of the mines is to be made by the respective Coal Companies. Closure
cost is to be estimated based on the required activities as per para 8.10.1 of guidelines
for the preparation of the Mining Plan and Mine Closure Plan dated 29" May 2020 for
implementing the approved closure plan. However, Coal India Ltd. may consider to
levy additional fee on per tonne basis to be paid by the coal consumers to meet the cost
of mine closure with the approval of Board and to provide funding for those subsidiaries
which are not able to fund the closure of these mines.

3|Page
5.1.

5.2.

5.3.

Exceptions -

In certain cases, there are more than one mine below the same surface land. One mine
may have been closed due to exhaustion of resources but other mines are running. In
such cases, final mine closure activities related to surface land may have to be deferred
till the closing of all the mines.

A mine can be planned and worked covering only a part of a Coal Block. The present
mine can be extended to cover the remaining part of the Coal Block in the future. Hence,
Final Mine Closure activities for the present mine area may be deferred.

However, progressive closure activities are to be carried out as per Mine closure
guidelines 2020 for both the above cases.

Maintenance of records & submission of returns -

The owner shall maintain all the records of works done for the closure of the mine and
keep them available till the final closure certificate is obtained from the competent
authority. DGPS survey of Abandoned/Discontinued mines linked to the national grid
to be kept available.

Monitoring -

CCO to carry out the inspection of all the mines, check the records maintained by the
owner of the work done and give written observation. Concerned mine authorities
should submit compliance to the observations made. Also, Coal companies are to
submit a quarterly report of work done towards closure to CCO. The Ministry of Coal
will do a quarterly review of the progress of the closure of mines.

Nothing in present guidelines shall absolve the owner of the mine from fulfilling various
statutory requirements under other applicable statutes and obligations. Further,
guidelines are without any prejudice to any other relevant rules and regulations, such
as those issued by the state government, Ministry of environment, forest & climate
change, Ministry of Labour, and employment.

Mp

(M. Nagaraju)
Additional Secretary to the Government of India

Mine Owners
1. Secretary, MoEF&CC

2. DG, DGMS
3. Coal Controller

4|Page
