No .CBA2-13011/ 1/2017-CBA2-Part(1)
Government of India
Ministry of Coal
Shastri Bhawan, New Delhi,
Dated the 11`‘
gi February, 2018
,2
ORDER
Subject: Methodology for Auction of Coal Mines/Blocks for sale of coal
under the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Act, 2015 and the Mines and
Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957.
The undersigned is directed to refer to Rule 8 (3) of the Coal Mines
(Special Provisions) Rules, 2014 read with Section 8 (5) of the Coal Mines
(Special Provisions) Act, 2015 and Rule 3(1) (d) of the Coal Blocks Allocation
Rules, 2017 read with Section 11A of the Mines and Minerals (Development
and Regulation) Act, 1957 and to say that the Central Government has
approved the methodology for auction of coal mines/blocks identified under the
relevant Act for sale of coal as mentioned in para 2 below:

2.1 Methodology for auction of coal mines for sale of coal on Rs. per tonne
basis:
2.1.1 Bid Parameter: The auction will be an ascending forward auction
whereby the bid parameter will be the price offer in Rs. /tonne which will
be paid to the State Government on the actual production of coal.
The floor price shall be unit ratio in terms of Rs. per tonne basis,
determined in accordance with methodology as mentioned at Sl. No. 1 of
Ministry of Coal's order no. 13016/9/2014/CA-III dated December 26,
2014 at Annexure-I.
The bidder who submits the highest price offer (Final Price Offer)
shall be the Successful Bidder.
2.1.2 Sale and/or Utilisation of Coal: There shall be no restriction on
the sale and/or utilization of coal from the coal mine. The Successful
Bidder shall be free to sell coal in any manner as may be decided by the
Page 1 of 3

Successful Bidder including sale to affiliates and related parties, utilize
coal for captive consumption and export of coal.
2.1.3 Coal Production Schedule: Successful Bidder shall have certain
degree of flexibility to manage its production depending on the market
scenario and will be allowed to reduce its production below Peak Rated
Capacity of the coal mine. Successful Bidder shall also be allowed to
increase its production subject to a revision in Mining Plan and statutory
approvals. While the Successful Bidder shall be allowed to manage his
production quantity (subject to the cap as per the Mining Plan) in the
event of any economic downturn or other such event, a drop in the
actual production is allowed, not below 50% of the production as per the
Mining Plan. However, in any five year block, the Successful Bidder will
have to mine out at least 70% of the production as per the Mining Plan.
2.1.4 Annual Adjustment of the Final Price Offer (including windfall
gains, if any): Windfall gain can be defined as a very significant increase
in revenue in comparison to increase in costs. During the mining lease
period, as a natural course, it is expected that the selling price of coal as
well as cost of production will increase due to inflation. Windfall gains
may arise in some situations, resulting in significant increase in the
profit of Successful Bidder.
In order to capture the potential revenue upside, including windfall gains
(if any), the Final Price Offer (Rs. / tonne) shall be considered as base for
the year of bidding with yearly adjustment linked to the Wholesale Price
Index - coal (of relevant grade) as published by GOT, Ministry of
Commerce and Industry (website: www.eaindustrv.nic.in) subject to the
condition that such figure shall not at any time be less than the Final
Price Offer. It shall be the responsibility of the concerned State
Governments to carry out the above calculation for determining adjusted
Final Price Offer and collecting the same from the Successful Bidder.

Page 2 of 3

2.2

For sale of coal, Foreign Direct Investment to the extent of 100% may be

allowed in coal mining activities including associated processing infrastructure
to attract international players to create efficient and competitive coal market.
The nodal Ministry/Department i.e. Department of Industrial Policy and
Promotion shall be approached for the same.
2.3 Washing of coal by the Successful Bidder should be as per extant

guidelines of M/o Environment, Forest and Climate Change.
2.4 The mines to be auctioned for sale of coal and their time schedule shall be

decided by the Ministry of Coal.
2.5 Terms and Conditions / modalities including eligibility criteria shall be

decided by Ministry of Coal as the same are part of Tender Conditions.
2.6 The above methodology for auction of coal mines shall also be applied for

the coal mines to be auctioned for sale of coal under the provisions of the
MMDR Act, 1957 and Rules made thereunder.
This issues with the approval of Competent Authority.

(Rishan R athiang)
Under Secretary to the Government of India

To
1) The Nominated Authority, Ministry of Coal
2) JS (NKS), Ministry of Coal: For appropriate necessary action in respect of
auction of coal mines under the relevant provisions of the MMDR Act, 1957
and Rules made thereunder.
3) Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion: For necessary action with
respect to para 2.2 above.
Copy to :
.
1) TD (NIC) - with the request to upload on the website of Ministry of
Coal

Page 3 of 3

-

Antu.740(4. 2—
Most Immediate
No. 13016/9/2014-CA-III
Government of India
Ministry of Coal
Shastri Bhawan, New Delhi,
Dated the 26th December, 2014
ORDER
Subject:- Methodology for fixing Floor/Reserve Price for Auction and
Allotment of Coal Mines/Blocks.
In accordance with the provisions of Rule 8(3) of the Coal Mines
(Special Provisions), Rules, 2014 and Section 8(5) of the Coal Mines (Special
Provisions), Ordinance, 2014 the Government is pleased to approve the
Methodology for fixing Floor/ReserVe Price for Auction and Allotment of Coal
Mines/Blocks as mentioned below:METHODOLOGY FOR FIXING FLOOR/RESERVE PRICE
For fixing floor price for Auction for sectors like Steel, Sponge iron,
1.
Cement, Captive Power etc.:
The Intrinsic Value of the coal block will be calculated by computing its
Net Present Value (NPV), based on Discounted Cash Flow (DCF) method. The
10 % of this intrinsic value will be payable upfront in 3 installments of 5%,
2.5% and 2.5% as prescribed in the bidding document. The final NPV (after
subtracting the upfront payment received from the bidder) will then be
annuitized to• become equal to a unit ratio in terms of Rs/tonne (viz. floor
price). In this case for calculation of intrinsic value, it is proposed that, the
extant notified price of CIL (price of domestic coal) for the non-regulated
sectors for the corresponding GCV bands will be taken into account for
computing NPV. However, floor price shall not be less than Rs. 150/- per
tonne. The resultant bid price (Rs/tonne) shall be considered as base for the
year of bidding with yearly escalation linked to the WPI. The statutory royalty
payable on coal will continue to be governed as per extant rules.
2.
For fixing Reserve Price for coal mines /blocks to be allotted for
power projects to be set up in future on tariff based bidding (Case-2) and
3.
For fixing Reserve Price for coal mines/blocks to be allotted to the
Government Companies for specified end-uses :
A fixed Reserve Price of Rs.100/- per tonne of coal shall be payable, as
per actual production by the successful allottee. The statutory royalty payable
....2/-

-2on doal,will continue to be governed as per extant rules. This.would ensure
that there is no adverse impact on power tariff. The successful allottee shall
have to pay upfront payment, as may be prescribed in the tender/allotment
document. There is no bidding on coal under these two categories. The
`Reserve Price' may be escalated using a pre-determined formula that is
prescribed in now prevailing Standard Bidding Documents for Case-1 bidding
as formulated by Ministry of Power for escalation of fuel cost from captive
mines. However, for existing generation capacity contracted through tariff bid
based PPAs (Case-2), arranging fuel is the responsibility of power procurer.
Such Case-2 projects shall not be eligible to participate in the auction process
for the coal blocks.
For fixing the ceiling price for coal mines/blocks to be auctioned
4.
for generation capacity having cost plus PPAs or for generation.capacity
having tariff bid based PPAs (Case-I)/generation capacity tct be
contracted through cost plus PPAs or through tariff bid based PPAs
(Case-1) in future : A Ceiling Price of CIL Notified price for each coal block will be
a.
fixed and the bidders will be mandated to quote lower than this Ceiling
Price. The Ceiling price shall be fixed at Run-of-Mine . (ROM) price of
equivalent grade, as specified by CIL for the power sector. The bidder
quoting the lowest will be the successful bidder. This will be taken for
transfer price to the plant from the coal block. The resultant bid price
of coal will be escalable in line with a pre-specified escalation formula
for the purpose of considering the energy chaige. This method will
ensure that the benefit of lower bid price is passed through to the
consumers. •
The bid price of coal shall be considered as base for the year of
b.
bidding and it shall be escalable with pre-determined formula that is
prescribed in now prevailing Standard Bidding Document for Case-1
bidding as formulated by MoP, for escalation of fuel cost from captive
mines.
A fixed Reserve Price of Rs.100/- per tonne of coal shall be
c.
payable, as per actual production by the successful allocattee. The
statutory royalty payable on coal will continue to be governed as per
extant rules i.e. at the CIL notified price. Similarly, the reserve price
may also be escalable using the same formula as in `1D' above.
The successful allottee shall have to make upfront payment @ 10
d.
% of the intrinsic value of the coal block in 3 installments of 5%, 2.5%
and 2.5%, as prescribed in the bidding document.

-3TO ensure that, the benefit of coal is passed on to the consumers,
e.
the following conditions has been prescribed:
For generation capacity having cost plus PPAs or
I.
generation capacity to be contracted through cost plus PPAs
in future - 5or the purpose of determining the fuel cost for cost
. plus PPAs, the Appropriate CommissiOn will allow bid price of
coal along with subsequent escalation as provided in coal block
bid document as being equivalent to the Run of Mine (ROM) cost
of coal together with other allowable expenses and levies,
provided that it shall not lead to higher energy charge throughout
the tenure of PPA than that which would . have been obtained as
per the terms and conditions of the existing PPA.
For the generation capacity contracted through tariff
II.
bid based PPAs (Case-3) - The Appropriate Commission shall
review the quoted energy charge keeping in view that the actual
bid price of coal along with subsequent escalation as provided in
coal block bid document as being equivalent to Run of WIC
(ROM) cost of coal alongwith statutory levies and other
permissible components of energy charge, provided that such
revision shall not lead to higher energy charge throughout the
tenure of PPA than that which would have been obtained as per
the terms and conditions of the existing PPA. For this purpose,
the allocation of coal block under the new provisions shall be
treated as "Change in Law" to enable the Appropriate Commission
to revise the tariff downwards in accordance with the provisions
of PPA.
III. For the generation capacity to be contracted through
tariff bid based PPAs. (Case-1) in future - The Appropriate
Commission shall while adopting the tariff under Section 63 of
the Electricity Act, 2003, ensure that the energy charge is derived
based on the actual bid price of coal along with subsequent
escalation as provided in coal block bid document as being
equivalent to Run of Mine (ROM) cost of coal alongwith statutory
levies and other permissible_ components of energy charge.
For this purpose Ministry of Power will make suitable
IV.
provisions in the Tariff policy and/or in the bidding
guidelines issued under the Electricity Act, 2003.
For power plant having uncontracted capacity, the bidder shall be
f.
mandated to cap its merchant capacity at 15 % of the generating
....4/-

-4capacity linked to the allotted coal block for sale of power outside
medium and long terra PPAs contracted under Section 62 or Section 63 .
of the Electricity Act, 2003. Further the bidder shall have to pay an
additional reserve price for the quantum of coal used for power sold in
the merchant market. The additional reserve price for coal used for
merchant sale of power shall be based on intrinsic value of the coal
block annuitized over the yearly production in Rs/tonne terms. The
intrinsic value can be arrived at with the existing approved methodology
for steel/sponge iron/cement sectors/captive power. The additional
Reserve Price shall not be less than Rs. 150/- per tonne. Further the
resultant additional reserve price (Rs/tonne) shall be considered as
base for the year of bidding with yearly escalation linked to the WPI.

5.

Any further revision of CIL price after the bid due date would not have
any impact on the bid price of the blocks already bid as escalation on that
price has already been provided for in para 4.(b) above. For future bidding of
coal blocks, the then prevailing CIL_price cL be considered .for determining
ceiling price.
6.
For auction/allotment of coal blocks for the purpose of sale of coal as
provided in Section 4(2) of the Coal Mines (Special Provision) Ordinance,
2014, a separate methodology will be formulated.
This issues with the approval of Competent Authority.

(S.K. SHAH1)
Director
Ph.23382807

Nominated Authority,
Ministry• of Coal

Copy t :
TD (NIC) - with the request to upload on the website of Ministry of Coal

