F.No.12012/01/2015-CA-III
Government of India
Ministry of Coal
*****
Shastri Bhawan, New Delhi
Dated the 8th January, 2016
OFFICE MEMORANDUM
Subject: Methodology for fixing Upfront Payment and Reserve Price
for Allotment of Coal Mines/Blocks for sale of coal to PSUs
under the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Act, 2015.
The undersigned is directed to refer to Rule 8 (3) of the Coal Mines
(Special Provisions) Rules, 2014 and Section 8 (5) of the Coal Mines (Special
Provisions) Act, 2015 and to say that the Central Government has approved
the methodology for fixing Upfront Payment and Reserve Price for Allotment
of Coal Mines/Blocks for sale of coal to PSUs under the Coal Mines (Special
Provisions) Act, 2015 as mentioned below:"Upfront Payment for Allotment: The Intrinsic Value of the coal block will
be calculated by computing its Net Present Value (NPV), based on
Discounted Cash Flow (DCF) method. The 10 % of this intrinsic value will be
payable upfront in 3 installments of 5%, 2.5% and 2.5% as prescribed in the
allotment document. This is similar to the methodology used for calculation
of upfront payment for coal mines/blocks allotted to the Government
Companies for specified end-uses.
Reserve Price for allotment: A reserve price equivalent to the amount of
the royalty on coal as per prevalent rate shall be payable on per tonne basis
to the relevant coal bearing State Government as per actual production of
coal by the successful allottee including the allottees in the State of West
Bengal where royalty is prescribed in Rs. per tonne. The amount will be
calculated as per the extant / prevailing rate of royalty ad-valorem on price
of coal as reflected in the invoice, excluding taxes, levies and other charges.
The statutory royalty and other levies payable on coal will continue to be
governed as per extant rules."

(A.K Das)
Under Secretary to the Government of India
Tel. No. 23073936
The Nominated Authority,
Ministry of Coal
Copy :
(NIC) - with the request to upload on the website of Ministry of Coal

