Most Immediate
No. 13016/9/2014-CA-Ill
Government of India
Ministry of Coal
Shastri Bhawan, New Delhi,
Dated the 26 th December, 2014
ORDER

Subject:- Methodology for IlXing Floor/Reserve Price for Auction and
Allotment of Coal Mines/Blocks.
In accordance with the provisions of Rule 8(3) of the Coal Mines
(Special Provisions), Rules, 2014 and Section 8(5) of the Coal Mines (Special
Provisions), Ordinance, 2014 the Government is pleased to approve the
Methodology for fixing Floor/ReserVe Price for Auction and Allotment of. Coal
Mines/Blocks as mentioned below:ME-THODOLOGY FOR FIXING FLOOR/RESERVE PRICE
1.
For IlXing floor price for Auction for sectors like Steel, Sponge iron,
Cement, Captive Power etc.:

The Intrinsic Value of the coal block will be calculated by computing its
Net Present Value (NPV), based on Discounted Cash Flow (DCF) method. The
10 % of this intrinsic value will be payable u pfront in 3 installments of 5%,
2.5% and 2.5% as prescribed in the bidding document. The final NPV (after
subtracting the upfront payment received from the bidder) will then be
annuitized to become equal to a unit ratio in terms of Rs/tonne (viz. floor
price). In this case for calculation of intrinsic value, it is proposed that, the
extant notified price of CIL (price of domestic coal) for the non-regulated
sectors for the corresponding GCV bands will be taken into account for
computing NPV. However, floor price shall not be less than Rs. ISO/-per
to=e. The resultant bid price (Rs/to=e) shall be considered as base for the
year of bidding with yearly escalation linked to the WPI. The statutory royalty
payable on coal will continue to be governed as per extant rules.

2.
For IlXing Reserve Price for coal mines /blocks to be allotted for
power projects to be set up in future on tariff based bidding (Case-2) and
3.
For IlXing Reserve Price for coal mines/blocks to be allotted to the
Government Companies for specified end-uses:
A fixed Reserve Price of Rs.l 00 / - per tonne of coal shall be payable, as
per actual production by the successful allottee. The statutory royalty payable

.... 2/-

t--

-2on coal. will continue to be governed as per extant rules. This would ensure
that there is no adverse impact on power tariff. The successful allottee shall
have to pay upfront payment, as mai be prescribed in the tender/allotment
document. There is no bidding on coal under these two categories. The
'Reserve Price' may be escalated using a pre-determined formula that is
prescribed in now prevailing Standard Bidding Documents for Case-l bidding
as formulated by Ministry of Power for escalation of fuel cost from captive
mines. However, for existing generation capacity contracted through tariff bid
based PPAs (Case-2), arranging fuel is the responsibility of power procurer.
Such Case-2 projects shall not be eligible to participate in the auction process
for the coal blocks.
4.
For Itxing the ceiling price for coal mines/blocks to be auctioned
for generation capacity having cost plus PPAs or for generation capacity
having tariff bid based PPAs (Case-l)/generation capacity tQ be
contracted through cost plus PPAs or through tariff bid based PPAs
(Case-I) in future:

a.
A Ceiling Price of ClL Notified price for each coal block will be
fixed and the bidders will be mandated to quote lower than this Ceiling
Price. The Ceiling price shall be fixed at Run-of-Mine (ROM) price of
equivalent grade, as specified by ClL for the power sector. The bidder
quoting the lowest will be the successful bidd~r. This will be taken for
transfer price to the plant from the coal block. The resultant bid price
of coal will be escalable in line with a pre-specilied escalation formula
for the purpose of considering the energy charge. This method will
ensure that the benefit of lower bid price is passed through to the
consumers ..
b.
The bid price of coal shall be considered as base for the year of
bidding and it shall be escalable with pre-determined formula that is
prescribed in now prevailing Standard Bidding Document for Case-l
bidding as formulated by MoP, for escalation of fuel cost from captive
mInes.
c.
A fixed Reserve Price of Rs.l 00 / - per tonne of coal shall be
payable, as per actual production by the successful allocattee. The
statutory royalty payable on coal will continue to be governed as per
extant rules i.e. at the ClL notilied price. Similarly, the reserve price
may also be escalable using the same formula as in 'b' above.
d.
The successful allottee shall have to make upfront paYment @ 10
% of the intrinsic value of the coal block in 3 installments of 5%, 2.5%
and 2.5%, as prescribed in the bidding document.

·1:;--- .... 3/-

-3e.,
To ensure that, the benefit of coal is passed on to the consumers,
the following conditions has been prescribed:
I.
For generation capacity having cost plus PPAs or
generation capacity to be contracted through cost plus PPAs
in future - For the purpose of determining the fuel cost for cost
, plus PPAs, the Appropriate Commission will allow bid price of
coal along with subsequent escalation as provided in coal block
bid document as being equivalent to the Run of Mine (ROM) cost
of coal together with other allowable expenses and levies,
provided that it shall not lead to higher energy charge throughout
the tenure of PPA than that which would have been obtained as
per the terms and conditions of the existing PPA.

II.
For the generation capacity contracted through tariff
bid based PPAs (Case-I) - The Appropriate Commission 'shall
review the quoted energy charge keeping in view that the actual
bid price of coal along' with subsequent escalation as provided in
coal block biel document as being equivalent to Run of Mine
(ROM) cost of coal alongwith statutory levies and other
permissible components of energy charge, provided that such
revision shall not lead to higher energy charge throughout the
tenure of PPA than that which would have been obtained as per
the terms and conditions of the existing PPA. For this purpose,
the allocation of coal block under the new provisions shall be
treated as "Change in Law" to enable the Appropriate Commission
to revise the tariff downwards in accordance with the provisions
of PPA.
III.
For the generation capacity to be contracted through
tariff bid based PPAs (Case-I) in future - The Appropriate
Commission .shall while adopting the tariff under Section 63 of
the Electricity Act, 2003, ensure that the energy charge is derived
based on the actual bid price of coal along with -subsequent
escalation as provided in coal block bid document as being
equivalent to Run of Mine (ROM) cost of coal alongwith statutory
levies and other permissible components of energy charge.
IV.
For this purpose Ministry of Power will make suitable
provisions in the Tariff policy and! or in the bidding
guidelines issued under the Electricity Act, 2003.
f.
For power plant having uncontracted capacity, the bidder shall be
mandated to cap its merchant capacity at 15 % of the gene~ating

;;. ... .4/-

,.

-4capacity linked to the allotted coal block for sale of power outside
medium and long term PPAs contracted under Section 62 or Section 63
of the Electricity Act, 2003. Further the bidder shall have to pay an
additional reserve price for the quantum of coal used for power sold in
the merchant market.
The additional reserve price for coal used for
merchant sale of power shall be based on intrinsic value of the coal
block annuitized over the yearly production in Rs/tonne terms. The
intrinsic value can be arrived at with the existing approved methodology
for steel/sponge iron/cement sectors/captive power. The additional
Reserve Price shall not be less than Rs. 150/- per tonne. Further the
resultant additional reserve price (Rs/tonne) shall be considered as
base for the year of bidding with yearly escalation linked to the WPI.

5.
Any further revision of ClL price after the bid due date would not have
any impact on the bid price of the blocks already bid as escalation on that
price has already he en provided for in. p.?,ra 4.(b) above. For future bidding o-!
coal blocks, the chen prevailing CILpnce will be cons.idered for determining
ceiling price.
6.
For auction/ allotment of coal blocks for the purpose of sale of coal as
provided in Section 4(2) of the Coal Mines (Special Pro'ision) Ordinance,
2014, a separate methodology will be form ulated.

This issues "ith t.'1e approval of Competent Authority.

Tl


(SK SHARI)

Director
Ph.23382807

Nominated Authority,
Minis try of Coal

Copy;y
/TD (NlC) - "ith the request to upload on the website of Ivri...'l.istry of Coal

