F.No. 13011/3/2017-CBA2
Government of India
Ministry of Coal
***
Shastri Bhawan, New Delhi
Dated thed.
14 September, 2017
OFFICE MEMORANDUM
Subject: Methodology to provide the coal block allottee PSUs of
Power Sector with some flexibility in utilization of coal extracted
from the coal mines allotted under the Coal Mines (Special
Provisions) Act, 2015 for optimum utilization of coal mine for the
same end uses in the public interest and to achieve cost efficiencies
The undersigned is directed to refer to the subject mentioned above
and to say that an Inter-Ministerial Committee (IMC) has been
constituted under the chairmanship of Additional Secretary (Coal) to
devise methodology to provide the coal block allottee PSUs with some
flexibility in utilization of coal extracted from the coal mines allotted
under the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Act, 2015 {CM(SP) Act, 2015}
for optimum utilization of coal mine for the same end uses in the public
interest and to achieve cost efficiencies. The 1st meeting of IMC was
held on 07.08.2017 at 3:00 PM in the conference room of Ministry of
Coal. IMC recommended that to start with, methodology for
arrangement between two allottee PSUs which have been allotted coal
mines under the provisions of CM(SP) Act, 2015 would be considered.
2. In view of the methodology deliberated by IMC in its first meeting
and comments of Ministry of Power received vide No. FU-17/2017-IPC
dated 30.08.2017 thereon, the following methodology has been
approved by this Ministry:
a. The arrangement (s) / agreements (s) shall be in accordance with
Section 20 (1) of the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Act, 2015 read
with Rules 19 of the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Rules, 2014.
b. The present methodology has been formulated for arrangement (s)/
agreements (s) that may be entered between a PSU (hereinafter
referred to as "the PSU") which has been allotted coal mine(s) under
the provisions of CM (SP) Act, 2015 on the one hand and "other PSU"
which has either been allotted coal mine (s) or granted coal linkage (s)
for same end uses on the other. The scope of such
arrangement/agreement may include transfer of coal by the PSU to
other PSU in lieu of coal or power generated from such coal.
c. Arrangement for optimum utilization of coal mine with a company
which is not a successful bidder or allottee or has not been granted

coal linkage(s) is not allowed as such an arrangement is not
permissible as per the CM(SP) Act, 2015.
d. The agreement(s)/arrangement(s) as provided in the Section 20(1)
of the CM (SP) Act, 2015 should be for optimum utilization of the coal •
mine, for the same end uses, in the public interest and to achieve cost
efficiencies. The overall objective should be to reduce the cost of
power.
e. To achieve transparency, the particulars mentioned in Rule 19(2) of
CMSP Rules, 2014 should be displayed on the website of PSU allottee.
f. Before making an application to the Ministry of Coal, both the parties
to the arrangement should categorically certify the following regarding
the proposed arrangements:
i. Such arrangement results in optimum utilisation of coal mine.
ii. Such arrangement achieves cost efficiencies.
iii. Such arrangement is in public interest.
g. The application for the proposed arrangement (s)/ agreement (s)
shall contain full justification, calculations and the basis of arriving at
the conclusions in above para. The relevant calculations showing the
reduction in cost of power before and after the proposed agreement
(s)/ arrangement (s) should also be enclosed. The proposal so received
would be examined by a Technical Committee (TC) that may be
constituted or a Transaction Advisor (TA) that may be appointed for the
purpose. The report containing recommendations of TC/TA shall be sent
to MoP for comments. Upon receiving the comments/recommendation
from MoP, MoC shall take a decision on the proposed arrangement (s)/
agreement (s).
h. The parties would be required to furnish such additional information
as may be required.
i. Since the arrangement (s)/ agreement (s) under Section 20(1) are to
be in public interest, these should result in reduction in cost of power.
j. CERC/SERC while determining tariff, shall ensure that the benefits of
such arrangements are passed on to the consumers.
k. In case of coal being transferred in lieu of power generated from
such coal,
i. all the power generated from the transferred coal under the
arrangement(s)/agreement (s) shall be supplied to "the PSU" or its
beneficiary Discom(s) as the first right of "the PSU " provided that
any power not requisitioned by the PSU or its beneficiary Discom(s

) shall be treated as per the provisions of the Tariff Policy notified
by Ministry of Power under section 3 of the
Electricity Act,
2003 or as may be notified by Ministry of Power.
ii. The landed cost of power generated and delivered to the "the
PSU" (or its beneficiary Discom) transferring coal shall include
corresponding fixed charges, variable charges and transmission
charges at the periphery of the beneficiary Discom of "the PSU"
transferring coal and should be cheaper than the variable charge
for generation from the existing options of using coal in plant(s)
owned by "the PSU". This condition would be applicable where the
coal proposed to be transferred is being utilized in an existing
plant by "the PSU" transferring coal and such transfer of coal
would result into backing down the generation from that plant.
The condition may not be insisted upon where the PSU transfers
the coal which is more than normative requirement of linked EUPs.
I. Except in accordance with the arrangement/agreement approved
under this policy or in accordance with the respective allotment
agreement /CMDPA, no trading or sale of coal shall be allowed since
coal mines have been allotted for specified end use.
m. Monitoring of the agreement(s)/arrangement(s) with regard to coal
production would be done by CCO, with regard to power generated
and delivered would be done by CEA, and with regard to tariffs by
concerned regulators.
n. The arrangements should be worked out in consultation with the
Railways, if it involves transport of coal by rail mode.
o. An inter-ministerial sub-group consisting of representatives from
Ministry of Power, Ministry of Coal, Ministry of Railways, CEA and
POSOCO would be constituted to look into various operational issues
arising during implementation of this scheme. The sub-group would
meet at least quarterly and the methodology will be reviewed
periodically for amendments, if any, based on the experience gained
during the process.
3. This is issued with the approval of the Competent Authority.

(Rishan R
ang)
Under Secretary to the Government of India
Ph:23073936
To:

1. Additional Secretary, Ministry of Coal, Shastri Bhawan, New Delhi
2. Secretary, Ministry of Power, Shram Shakti Bhawan, New Delhi
3. Chairman, Railway Board, Ministry of Railways, Rail Bhawan, New
Delhi
4. Secretary, Department of Expenditure, Ministry of Finance, North
Block, New Delhi
5. Secretary, Department of Legal Affairs, Ministry of Law and Justice,
Shastri Bhawan, New Delhi
6. Nominated Authority, Ministry of Coal, Shastri Bhawan, New Delhi
7. Joint Secretary (RKS), Ministry of Coal, Shastri Bhawan, New Delhi
8. Chairperson, CERC, 3rd & 4th Floor, Chanderlok Building, 36,
Janpath, New Delhi.
9. Member (Thermal), CEA, SewaBhawan, New Delhi
10. CMD, SCCL
11. CMD, Coal India Limited
12. Director (CBA-II), Ministry of Coal

