REGD. No. D. L.-33004/99 
  
 
 
xxxGIDHxxx 
.E-0xx4x1 02021-230139
CG-DL-E-04102021-230139
  
EXTRAORDINARY 

PART II—Section 3—Sub-section (i) 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 
  
No. 575] NEW DELHI, MONDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2021/ASVINA 12, 1943  
 

2  THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY    [PART II—SEC. 3(i)] 

 
MINISTRY OF COAL 
NOTIFICATION 
New Delhi, the 1st October, 2021 
G.S.R. 717(E).⸺In exercise of powers conferred by Section 13 of the Mines and Minerals  
Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 (67 of 1957), the Central Government hereby makes the following 
rules further to amend the Mineral Concession Rules, 1960, namely:-  
1. Short title and commencement.⸺(1) These rules may be called the Mineral Concession 
(Amendment) Rules, 2021. 
(2) Save as otherwise provided in these rules they shall come into force on the date of their 
publication in Gazette of India. 
2. In the Mineral Concession Rules, 1960, (hereinafter referred to as the principal rules),in rule 2, in sub-
rule (1), after clause (vii),the following clause shall be inserted, namely:- 
„(viia) “run-of-mine” means the raw, unprocessed or uncrushed material in its natural state obtained after 
blasting, digging,  cutting or scraping from the mineralised zone of a lease area;‟. 
 
3. In the principal rules, after rule 24B the following rule shall be inserted, namely:- 
  “24C. Period of mining lease granted to Government companies or corporations.— 
(1) All mining leases granted on or after the commencement of the Mineral Concession (Amendment) 
Rules, 2021 to a Government company or corporation for coal or lignite shall be for a period of 
fifty years.  
(2) All subsisting mining leases vested or granted to a Government company or corporation before 
commencement of the Mineral Concession (Amendment) Rules, 2021 for coal or lignite shall be 
st
deemed to have been granted for fifty years or till 31  March 2030, whichever is later. 
(3) The State Government, upon an application made to it in this behalf by the Government company 
or corporation at least three months prior to the expiry of the mining lease, shall extend the period 
of the mining lease for a further period of twenty years at a time: 
Provided that the State Government may condone the delay in application for extension made after 
the prescribed time limit: 
Provided further that no extension of period of mining lease shall be granted to a Government 
company or corporation that has been selected through auction. 
(4) If an application for extension of mining lease made within the time mentioned  in sub-rule (3) is 
not disposed of by the State Government before the date of expiry of the lease, the period of that 
lease shall be deemed to have been extended till the State Government passes an order on the same. 
(5) All applications made by a Government company or corporation for renewal of mining lease which 
were pending as on the date of commencement of the Mines and Minerals (Development and 
Regulation) Amendment Act, 2021 (16 of 2021) shall be deemed to be applications for extension of 
the period of the mining lease and shall be disposed of in accordance with the provisions of sub-
rule (3).”. 
4.  In the principal rules, after rule 27, the following rule shall be inserted, namely:- 
 “27A. Manner of sale of coal or lignite by the lessee of a captive mine.⸺ (1)Any lessee may, where coal 
or lignite is used for captive purpose, sell coal or lignite up to such per cent. of the total coal or lignite 
produced in a financial year, as allowed under sub-section (5) of section 8, after meeting the requirement of 
the end use plant linked with the mine. 
Explanation 1.- For the purpose of this rule it is clarified that the requirement of the end use plant linked 
with the mine for a financial year shall be the actual quantity of coal or lignite consumed in the said plant in 
that financial year or a part thereof. 
Explanation 2.- For the purpose of this rule, quantity of coal or lignite produced, sold, utilised in linked 
end-use plant and the payment of additional amount on the quantity sold shall be assessed on run-of-mine 
basis.  
Explanation 3.-Sale of any tailings, rejects or middlings shall not be restricted by this rule. 
(2) For the quantity of coal or lignite sold in accordance with sub-section (5) of section 8, the lessee shall 
pay to the State Government, at the time of payment of royalty, an additional amount as specified in the 
Sixth Schedule of the Act, which shall be in addition to royalty or payment to the District Mineral 
Foundation and National Mineral Exploration Trust or any other statutory payment or payment specified in 
the tender document or the auction premium, wherever applicable.  
(3) Within one month of the end of a financial year, for sale made in the previous financial year, the lessee 
shall submit to the Nominated Authority, Ministry of Coal, Coal Controller‟s Organisation and to the State 
Government, a self-declaration in Form R. 
(4) Sale of coal shall not be allowed from the coal mines allotted to a company or corporation that has been 
awarded a power project on the basis of competitive bid for tariff (including Ultra Mega Power Projects).” 
Explanation.-For the purpose of this rule, it is clarified that the provision for sale of coal or lignite as 
prescribed in this rule shall not affect the eligibility conditions and efficiency parameters prescribed in the 
respective agreements entered into by the lessee with the Central Government. 
 
8  THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY    [PART II—SEC. 3(i)] 
5. In the principal rules, for rule 28, the following rule shall be substituted, namely:- 
“28. Lapsing of Leases.⸺ (1) Where production and dispatch has not commenced within a period of two 
years from the date of execution of the mining lease or is discontinued for a continuous period of two years 
after commencement of production or dispatch, the mining lease shall lapse on the expiry of the period of 
two years from the date of execution of the lease or as the case may be, discontinuance of the production 
and dispatch.  
(2) The lapsing of the mining lease shall be recorded through an order issued by the State Government and 
shall also be communicated to the lessee.  
(3) Where a lessee is unable to commence the production and dispatch within a period of two years from 
the date of execution of the mining lease or discontinuation of production and dispatch for reasons beyond 
his control, he may submit an application to the State Government, requesting for an extension of such 
period of two years by a further period not exceeding one year, explaining the reasons for the same, at least 
three months before the expiry of such period of two years: 
Provided where the lessee has failed to make the application within the time stipulated above, the lease 
shall lapse on expiry of the period of two years. 
(4) Application made under sub-rule (3) shall specify⸺ 
(a) the reasons on account of which it will not be possible for the lessee to undertake mining 
operations or continue production and dispatch; 
(b) the manner in which such reasons are beyond the control of the lessee; 
(c) the steps that have been taken by the lessee to mitigate the impact of such reasons; and 
(d) the period of extension sought. 
(5) Every application under sub-rule (3) shall be accompanied by a fee of  two hundred rupees.  
(6) The State Government shall, after examining the application, pass an order, within a period of three 
months from the date of receipt of the application made under sub-rule (3) or the date on which the mining 
lease would have otherwise lapsed, whichever is earlier, either granting or rejecting such request:  
Provided that such mining lease shall lapse on failure to undertake production and dispatch or inability to 
continue production and dispatch within the extended period of one year: 
Provided further that such extension shall not be granted for more than once during the entire period of 
lease.  
(7) The State Government shall communicate to the Coal Controller‟s Organisation, Nominated Authority 
and Ministry of Coal the order recorded under sub-rule (2) or issued under sub-rule (6)within fifteen days 
of recording or issuing of such order.”. 
6. In the principal rules, rule 28A shall be omitted. 
7.  In the principal rules, for rule 64B, the following rule shall be substituted, namely:- 
 “64B. Charging and instance of payment of royalty in case of minerals subjected to processing.⸺ The 
royalty shall be charged on run-of-mine coal or lignite irrespective of its processing  within or outside the 
leased area: 
Provided that the royalty shall be payable at the time of dispatch from or consumption within the leased 
area.”. 
8. In the principal rules, rule 64C shall be omitted. 
9. In the principal rules, in Schedule I, after Form Q, the following Form  shall be inserted, namely:- 
 
“Form R 
( Rule 27A (3)) 
Self-declaration 
st st
For the financial year 1 April 20              to 31 March 20        ___ 
ANNUAL RETURN 
To  
 (i) The Nominated Authority 
Ministry of Coal 
Shastri Bhawan, New Delhi 
(ii) The Coal Controller 
Office of the Coal Controller‟s Organisation 
1, Council House Street, 
Lal Dighi, BBD Bagh 
Kolkata, West Bengal-700001 
 (iii)       State Government 
  
 (PRODUCTION, DISPATCHES AND STOCKS OF COAL/LIGNITE) 
 (Unit of Quantity in Tonnes) 
  
1.   Details of Mine: 
(a) Registration number allotted by Indian Bureau of Mines  
(to give registration number of the Lessee-Owner) 
(b) Mine Code (allotted by Indian Bureau of Mines)  
(c) Name of the Mineral (Coal OR Lignite):  
(d)  Name of Mine  
2. Location of the Mine: 
Village  
Post Office  
Tahsil-Taluk  
District  
State  
PIN Code  
Fax No: E-mail: 
Phone No: Mobile: 
 3. Name and address of Lessee-Owner (along with fax no. and e-mail): 
(a) Name of Lessee-Owner  
(b) Address  
(c) District  
(d) State  
(e) PIN Code  
10  THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY    [PART II—SEC. 3(i)] 
(f) Fax No.: E-mail: 
(g) Phone No: Mobile: 
(h) Registered Office of the Lessee  
(i) Director in-charge  
(j) Agent:  
(k) Manager:  
4.     Yearly Grade-wise Production, EUP Requirement, EUP Utilisation, Sale etc. 
Lignite/ Opening stock Production EUP EUP Quantity Sold Closing 
Grades of at pit- head Requirement Utilisation stock at 
coal (Carried pit-head 
Forward) 
  
     
  
     
  
     
Grand 
  
Total:     
  5.    Sales- Dispatches effected for Domestic Purposes and for Exports: 
Nature of 
 
Lignite/Grade Dispatch For Domestic Purposes For export 
of coal (Indicate 
whether Registration Consignee Quantity Sale Country Quantity F.O.B 
Domestic number/ name## value Value (₹) 
Sale GSTN of the (₹) 
buyer/ 
or Domestic 
 consignee ##       
Transfer or 
       
Captive 
       
consumption 
       
or Export) 
       
         
         
         
Grand Total: 
        
  
## To indicate separately if more than one buyer. 
 NOTE: - Mine owners are required to substantiate domestic sale value- FOB value for each grade of coal 
or lignite quoted above with copy of invoices (not to be submitted with the return; to be produced whenever 
required). 
 6.           Give reasons for increase-decrease in production-nil production, if any, during the year 
compared to the previous year. 
 a) ..... 
 b) ..... 
   
7. Give reasons for increase-decrease in grade wise ex-mine price, if any, during the year 
compared to the previous year. 
 a) ..... 
b) ...... 
        
Place:……………                    Signature……..……………………... 
Date……………….                    Name in Full………..……………….. 
    Designation: Owner/Agent/Mining Engineer/Manager”. 
[F. No. 12012/2/2021-PS1] 
BHABANI PRASAD PATI, Jt. Secy. 
Note : The principal rules were published in the Gazette  of India, Part II, Section 3, Sub-section (i) vide 
th
number G.S.R. 1398, dated the 23 November, 1960 and lastly amended vide number G.S.R 331(E) 
th
dated the 29  May, 2020. 
Explanatory Memorandum 
Sub-section (4) of Section 8 of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957inserted 
through the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Amendment Act, 2021 (16 of 2021) 
empowers the Central Government to prescribe the period of existing mining leases and to extend the 
period of mining leases in case of Government companies or corporations. Accordingly, the period of 
existing mining leases has been prescribed in sub-rule (2) of rule 24C and the pending applications for 
renewal of mining leases shall be deemed to be applications for extension of period of mining lease in sub-
rule (5) of rule 24C. It is certified that no person is being adversely affected by granting retrospective effect 
through these rules.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Uploaded by Dte. of Printing at Government of India Press, Ring Road, Mayapuri, New Delhi-110064 
and Published by the Controller of Publications, Delhi-110054. 
